WIP inclusive events chapter landing page (#3314)
the-turing-way/the-turing-way: book/website/collaboration/inclusive-events.md

It covers: 
- planning and logistical considerations
- guidance on how to evaluate and choose a location
- considerations and requirements for developing a communications strategy
- suggestions for how to create an inclusive and accessible agenda
- accessible technology requirements and recommendations for hybrid events
- and provides a checklist that can be tailored to your specific event

(cl-inclusive-events-background)=
## Motivation and Background

Every person should have the opportunity to participate fully and equally in all events and social activities – regardless of their individual ability, gender, age, ethnic or social background and there has been an increased effort in many disciplines to involve members of the public and people with lived experience in research projects. 

This chapter is meant to serve as a resource to support and guide researchers, organizers, and community members with the tools to identify the challenges and opportunities in organizing events that involve and include people with lived experience.

> We refer to "people with lived experience" throughout this chapter as a way to recognize and acknowledge individuals who have direct personal knowledge, or firsthand experience of a particular situation, condition, or topic. It is a term often used to emphasise the importance of including the perspectives and insights of those who have had direct experience of a specific condition or situation. In the context of event planning, the considerations need to cover both the disability requirements of your attendees, and an identification of barriers that would be experienced by your specific attendees with lived experience. For example, attendees who are immunocompromised, experience long-term health conditions, people with disabilities, and those with caring responsibilities would all be considered as people with lived experience, and would have slightly different accommodations needed to support their engagement in an event. 

Reviewer: > For example, attendees who are immunocompromised, experience long-term health conditions, people with disabilities, and those with caring responsibilities would all be considered as people with lived experience, and would have slightly different accommodations needed to support their engagement in an event. 

I think this is potentially a bit confusing. If the conference/event deals with these topics, then these attendees would have lived experience but otherwise that might not be the right label? E.g. at a conference on astrophysics, it would be weird to refer to someone with caring responsibilities as "a person with lived experience on the topic"? Just to be cautious to not conflate needs for accommodations with lived experience generally 🙂

Author: That makes sense. I can take out the "or topic" on line 38 currently - but I'm not sure how else to address it. 

I added topic because "carer in palliative care" is not necessarily a single experience - but more of a area/topic/field. 

I think the chapter's breadth in terms of needing to account for every case, every field/domain, internationalization, and reader base may mean that some statements have to be broad. 

Happy to take suggestions if you can think of a better phrasing.

This chapter is meant to serve as a resource to support and guide researchers, organizers, and community members with the tools to identify the challenges and opportunities in organizing events that involve and include people with lived experience.

We refer to "people with lived experience" throughout this chapter as a way to recognize and acknowledge individuals who have direct personal knowledge, or firsthand experience of a particular situation, condition, or topic. 
It is a term often used to emphasise the importance of including the perspectives and insights of those who have had direct experience of a specific condition or situation. 
In the context of event planning, the considerations need to cover both the disability requirements of your attendees and an identification of barriers that would be experienced by your specific attendees with lived experience. 

> For example, attendees who are immunocompromised, experience long-term health conditions, people with disabilities, and those with caring responsibilities would all be considered as people with lived experience, and would have slightly different accommodations needed to support their engagement in an event. 

Reviewer: I think the comment I left on the prior version is still somewhat relevant on this to avoid conflating general accessibility & inclusion aspects with the "people with lived experience". 

A possible way of framing this would be that depending on the research topic the people with lived experience might be more likely to have accessibility requirements (e.g. when doing research on disabilities, health conditions, etc…) and that there might also be particular inclusion requirements that come from not being part of professional research (e.g. having different expectations, social networks, …)

Author: I drafted this sentence which can go on line 40. 

> Not all attendees with lived experience will have a disability, but if the focus of the experience you are running your event for is a health condition or disability, then you will need to consider both accessibility and inclusion requirements. 

I do feel like it would be more confusing to add that in on the landing page and it might be better served in a section of TTW which discusses PPIE in general. 

I would be happy making the assumption that people coming to this chapter for guidance on event planning considerations would already have an idea of what their community of people with lived experience was and therefore would be able to discern the differences between the accessibility requirements and being inclusive. 

If it needs more addressing then either a separate chapter or adjusting the accessible design vs. universal design section might be better to house a sentence pointing out that not every lived experience is a disability. 

What do you think?

Reviewer: See comment below for my stab at trying to fold it in without expanding it too much!

> We refer to "people with lived experience" throughout this chapter as a way to recognize and acknowledge individuals who have direct personal knowledge, or firsthand experience of a particular situation, condition, or topic. 
> It is a term often used to emphasise the importance of including the perspectives and insights of those who have had direct experience of a specific condition or situation. 
> In the context of event planning, the considerations need to cover both the disability requirements of your attendees and an identification of barriers that would be experienced by your specific attendees with lived experience. 
> For example, attendees who are immunocompromised, experience long-term health conditions, people with disabilities, and those with caring responsibilities would all be considered as people with lived experience, and would have slightly different accommodations needed to support their engagement in an event. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We refer to "people with lived experience" throughout this chapter as a way to recognize and acknowledge individuals who have direct personal knowledge, or firsthand experience of a particular situation, condition, or topic. It is a term often used to emphasise the importance of including the perspectives and insights of those who have had direct experience of a specific condition or situation. 

Depending on your research, people with lived experience might be people who are immunocompromised, experience long-term health conditions, people with disabilities, or those with caring responsibilities.
In the context of event planning, any of these people with lived experiences would have slightly different accommodation needs to support them engaging in your event. 
Thus, your considerations need to cover both the potential disability requirements of your attendees and an identification of barriers that would be experienced by your specific attendees with lived experience. 

Importantly, not all attendees with lived experience will have a disability, but your event focuses on experiences such as a health condition or disability, then you will need to consider both accessibility and inclusion requirements.
```

@BrainonSilicon I've given it a stab to fold your suggested sentence in and shuffled things around a bit, do you think it makes sense like that? 🙂

Author: I think that does! Thank you for the phrasing suggestion 🚀 🚀

(cl-inclusive-events-background)=
## Motivation and Background

> Every person should have the opportunity to participate fully and equally in all events and social activities – regardless of their individual ability, gender, age, ethnic or social background and there has been an increased effort in many disciplines to involve members of the public and people with lived experience in research projects. 

Reviewer: It might be a personal preference, but I think this opening is very broad, going from "un declaration of human rights"-level of ambition straight into PPIE efforts. I think it would be good to either have a bit more connecting bits between those two, or alternatively replace the first half with a bit more PPIE centric background on why PPIE efforts are now a thing & what that means for events.

Author: I've reworked the introduction in the latest commit. I was struggling to find a way to introduce the topic in the landing page without having to write a whole separate section explaining PPIE's purpose and methods in general.

If you think this is a better way to introduce the topic then happy to keep the change - it may be something that can be revised by a collaborator as I've been really stuck on the landing page's introduction.

Reviewer: I think the updated version feels very good to me!

> This chapter is meant to serve as a resource to support and guide reseacrhers, organizers, and community members with the tools to identify the challenges and opportunities in organizing events that involve and include people with lived experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This chapter is meant to serve as a resource to support and guide researchers, organizers, and community members with the tools to identify the challenges and opportunities in organizing events that involve and include people with lived experience.
```
